# Node and NPM basics.
The goal is to discuss the very basics of Node, using 3rd party modules and our `package.json`

You want to make sure you have node and npm installed if you want to work.

## installing a 3rd party module
Find a module on npm.js or github.com.

Open a terminal and navigate to your working directory

call `npm install some_module`

## import/require
To use said module, you would do the following:
- Create some javascript file
- In this javascript file, declare:

```js
//es5 way
var myModule = require('some_module');

//es6 way
import myModule from 'some_module';
//or
const myModule = require('some_module');
```

require and imports are typically declared at the top of the js file.

Now you can use the third party module.

I think it's now important to talk about the `package.json`.

This file actually contains a lot of the configuration for how our app will run.

## package.json
You might have noticed in the root directory this project, we have a file called `package.json`.

This file holds some basic commands and more importantly, holds the dependencies we have for our project.

This is really useful because it means we can push this repo on github or anywhere else without sending our dependencies.

Then when someone wants to use our project, all the have to do is clone the repo, call `npm install` and they will have everything set up for them.

Let's take a look at our current `package.json`. I've omitted some of the minor details.

```js
{
    "name": "chatr",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "description": "The first CSC Project Series project. A Chat program to teach the basics of networking",
    "main": "config.js",
    "scripts": {
        "test": "gulp && mocha -u tdd --compilers js:babel-core/register --require ./test/test_helper.js --recursive ./test",
        "prestart": "gulp",
        "start": "babel-node server.js"
    },
    "dependencies": {
      ...
    },
    "devDependencies": {
      ...
    }
}
```

This file was generated by called `npm init` when the project was first created in our terminal, in the working directory.

So let's talk about the important bits, all you need to focus on are 3 keys, `scripts`, `dependencies` and `devDependencies`

`scripts` - These are custom npm commands that will execute terminal commands for you. For example `npm test` will run our unit tests. `npm start` will run our application.

`npm prestart` is a special hook built into npm that will execute a command everytime we call `npm start`. So everytime we call npm start, `gulp` is called => `babel-node server.js` is called. This makes sure that we transpile and bundle our react components before we start up our server.

`dependencies` - These are the dependencies or 3rd party modules that our app needs.

`devDependencies` - Dependencies needed for development only.

## More on dependencies
We already touched on how to install 3rd party node modules.

However, if you just simply run `npm install some_module`, it will install it, but it won't be visible in the package.json, which is really bad if your project depends on it and you plan on sharing it because then that person will have to go hunting for that dependency.

We also don't want to manually write this in our package.json either, that will drive us crazy.

The fix? Simply run `npm install --save some_module` which will install and put a line declaring the dependency in your package.json.

For a dev dependency, its `npm install --save-dev some_module`
